GWEN IFILL, NEWSHOUR ANCHOR:
Good evening, I m Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF, NEWSHOUR ANCHOR:
And I m Judy Woodruff.
And welcome to this PBS NEWSHOUR
special: coverage of the second
presidential debate
between Democrat Hillary Clinton
and Republican Donald Trump.
The stage is set at Washington
University in St. Louis.
The most unconventional campaign
in modern presidential history
has reached entirely
new levels.
Friday s release of the
videotape from 2005 of Donald
Trump using lewd language and
bragging
about making unwanted sexual
advances on women has prompted a
number of Republicans to
withdraw
their support from
their party s nominee.
IFILL: Tonight s debate will be
a town hall format where Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump
will be taking questions from an
audience of uncommitted voters,
as well as from moderators
Martha Radiate of ABC News
and Anderson Cooper of CNN.
Joining us at our table are our
regular NEWSHOUR contributors:
syndicated columnist Mark
Shields,
New York Times columnist David
Brooks, and Amy Walter of The
Cook Political Report.
And in another unprecedented
turn: Donald Trump staged a
surprise appearance little
more than an hour ago with four
women, three of who whom accused
Bill Clinton of sexual
assault or harassment.
In response, the Clinton
campaign said, we re not
surprised see Donald Trump
continue his
destructive race to the bottom.
Friends, the moral equivalency
wars are in full I don t know,
sway, David?
DAVID BROOKS, THE NEW YORK
TIMES: This could be one of the
most historic and repulsive
debates to the American
political history.
We ve entered TV a reality
TV show of the bottom level.
And so I m expecting a
traffic accident frankly.
And what trump did tonight I
think will backfire on him badly
as more Republicans flee from
him.
WOODRUFF: Amy, how much of all
this stuff do you think is going
to come up tonight?
AMY WALTER, THE COOK POLITICAL
REPORT: Well, the fact that I
can t let my fourth-grader
watch a presidential debate I
think tells you all you need to
know about where we are
in this campaign and
what I expect from it.
Look, I think Donald Trump s
before he had this press
conference my thought was
he s either going to come in do
contrition or he s going to do
combative.
And we know obviously
which half he chose.
He has decided throughout the
course of this campaign to
double down, triple down, any
time he s challenged.
He is only interested in talking
to his the faithful, never
interested in reaching beyond
that.
IFILL: And, Mark Shields, are we
talking about a policy debate
tonight or a personality debate?
MARK SHIELDS, SYNDICATED
COLUMNIST: We re talking about
Donald Trump trying to save
his candidacy.
Stop Republicans
from fleeing him.
Energizing the base.
Making it a Clinton race again.
I think unsuccessfully.
WOODRUFF: And now here are
the moderators,
Martha Radiate and
Anderson Cooper.
[*] RADIATE: Ladies and
gentlemen the Republican nominee
for president, Donald J. Trump,
and
the Democratic nominee for
president, Hillary Clinton.
(APPLAUSE)
COOPER: Thank you very
much for being here.
We re going to begin with a
question from one of the members
in our town hall.
Each of you will have two
minutes to respond to this
question.
Secretary Clinton, you won the
coin toss, so you ll go first.
Our first question comes
from Patrice Brock.
Patrice?
QUESTION: Thank you,
and good evening.
The last debate could have been
rated as MA, mature audiences,
per TV parental guidelines.
Knowing that educators assign
viewing the presidential debates
as students homework,
do you feel you re modeling
appropriate and positive
behavior for today s youth?
CLINTON: Well, thank you.
Are you a teacher?
Yes, I think that that s a very
good question, because I ve
heard from lots of teachers
and parents about some of their
concerns about some of the
things that are being said and
done in this campaign.
And I think it is very important
for us to make clear to our
children that our country
really is great
because we re good.
And we are going to respect one
another, lift each other up.
We are going to be looking for
ways to celebrate our diversity,
and we are going to try to
reach out to every boy and girl,
as well as every adult, to bring
them in to working on
behalf of our country.
I have a very positive and
optimistic view about what we
can do together.
That s why the slogan of my
campaign is Stronger Together,
because I think if
we work together, if we overcome
the divisiveness that sometimes
sets Americans against one
another, and instead we make
some big goals and I ve set
forth some big goals, getting
the economy to work for
everyone, not just those at the
top, making sure that we have
the best education system from
preschool through college and
making it affordable, and so
much
else.
If we set those goals and we go
together to try to achieve them,
there s nothing in
my opinion that
America can t do.
So that s why I hope that we
will come together in this
campaign.
Obviously, I m hoping to earn
your vote, I m hoping to be
elected in November, and
I can promise you, I will
work with every American.
I want to be the president for
all Americans, regardless of
your political beliefs, where
you come from, what you
look like, your religion.
I want us to heal our country
and bring it together because
that s, I think, the best
way for us to get the future
that our children and our
grandchildren deserve.
COOPER: Secretary
Clinton, thank you.
Mr. Trump, you have two minutes.
TRUMP: Well, I actually
agree with that.
I agree with
everything she said.
I began this campaign because I
was so tired of seeing such
foolish things happen to our
country.
This is a great country.
This is a great land.
I ve gotten to know the people
of the country over the last
year-and-a-half that I ve
been doing this as a politician.
I cannot believe I m saying that
about myself, but I guess I have
been a politician.
TRUMP: And my whole concept was
to make America great again.
When I watch the deals being
made, when I watch what s
happening with some horrible
things like Obamacare, where
your health insurance and health
care is going up by numbers that
are astronomical, 68 percent, 59
percent, 71 percent, when I look
at the Iran deal and
how bad a deal it is for us,
it s a one-sided transaction
where we re giving back $150
billion to a terrorist state,
really, the number one terror
state, we ve made them
a strong country from really a
very weak country just three
years ago.
When I look at all of the things
that I see and all of the
potential that our country
has, we have such tremendous
potential, whether it s in
business and trade, where we re
doing so badly.
Last year, we had almost
$800 billion trade deficit.
In other words, trading
with other countries.
We had an $800 billion deficit.
It s hard to believe.
Inconceivable.
You say who s
making these deals?
We re going the
make great deals.
We re going to have
a strong border.
We re going to bring
back law and order.
Just today, policemen
was shot, two killed.
And this is happening
on a weekly basis.
We have to bring back
respect to law enforcement.
At the same time, we have to
take care of people on all
sides.
We need justice.
But I want to do things that
haven t been done, including
fixing and making our inner
cities better for the
African-American citizens that
are so great, and for the
Latinos, Hispanics,
and I look forward to doing it.
It s called make
America great again.
COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
The question from Patrice was
about are you both modeling
positive and appropriate
behavior
for today s youth?
We received a lot of questions
online, Mr. Trump, about the
tape that was released on
Friday, as you can imagine.
You called what you said
locker room banter.
You described kissing women
without consent, grabbing their
genitals.
That is sexual assault.
You bragged that you have
sexually assaulted women.
Do you understand that?
TRUMP: No, I didn t
say that at all.
I don t think you understood
what was this was locker room
talk.
I m not proud of it.
I apologize to my family.
I apologize to the
American people.
Certainly I m not proud of it.
But this is locker room talk.
You know, when we have a world
where you have ISIS chopping off
heads, where you have and,
frankly, drowning people in
steel cages, where you have wars
and horrible, horrible sights
all over, where you have so many
bad things happening, this is
like medieval times.
We haven t seen anything like
this, the carnage all over the
world.
And they look and they see.
Can you imagine the people that
are, frankly, doing so well
against us with ISIS?
And they look at our country
and they see what s going on.
Yes, I m very embarrassed by it.
I hate it.
But it s locker room talk, and
it s one of those things.
I will knock the
hell out of ISIS.
We re going to defeat ISIS.
ISIS happened a number of years
ago in a vacuum that was left
because of bad judgment.
And I will tell you, I
will take care of ISIS.
COOPER: So, Mr. Trump
TRUMP: And we should get on to
much more important things and
much bigger things.
COOPER: Just for the record,
though, are you saying that what
you said on that bus 11 years
ago that you did not actually
kiss women without consent or
grope women without consent?
TRUMP: I have great
respect for women.
Nobody has more respect
for women than I do.
COOPER: So, for the record,
you re saying you never did
that?
TRUMP: I ve said things that,
frankly, you hear these things I
said.
And I was embarrassed by it.
But I have tremendous
respect for women.
COOPER: Have you ever
done those things?
TRUMP: And women
have respect for me.
And I will tell you:
No, I have not.
And I will tell you that I m
going to make our country safe.
We re going to have borders in
our country, which we don t have
now.
People are pouring into our
country, and they re coming in
from the Middle East and other
places.
We re going to make
America safe again.
We re going to make America
great again, but we re going to
make America safe again.
And we re going to make America
wealthy again, because if you
don t do that, it
just it sounds harsh to say,
but we have to build up the
wealth of our nation.
COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
TRUMP: Right now, other nations
are taking our jobs and they re
taking our wealth.
COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
TRUMP: And that s what
I want to talk about.
COOPER: Secretary Clinton,
do you want to respond?
CLINTON: Well, like everyone
else, I ve spent a lot of time
thinking over the last
48 hours about what
we heard and saw.
You know, with prior Republican
nominees for president, I
disagreed with them on politics,
policies, principles, but I
never questioned their fitness
to serve.
Donald Trump is different.
I said starting back in June
that he was not fit to be
president and
commander-in-chief.
And many Republicans and
independents have said the same
thing.
What we all saw and heard on
Friday was Donald talking about
women, what he thinks about
women, what he does to women.
And he has said that the video
doesn t represent who he is.
But I think it s clear to anyone
who heard it that it represents
exactly who he is.
Because we ve seen this
throughout the campaign.
We have seen him insult women.
We ve seen him rate women on
their appearance, ranking them
from one to ten.
We ve seen him embarrass
women on TV and on Twitter.
We saw him after the first
debate spend nearly a week
denigrating a former Miss
Universe
in the harshest,
most personal terms.
So, yes, this is who
Donald Trump is.
But it s not only women, and
it s not only this video that
raises questions about
his fitness to be our president,
because he has also targeted
immigrants, African- Americans,
Latinos, people with
disabilities, POWs, Muslims, and
so many others.
So this is who Donald Trump is.
And the question for us, the
question our country must answer
is that this is not who
we are.
That s why to go back to your
question I want to send a
message we all should
to every boy and girl and,
indeed, to the entire world that
America already is great,
but we are great because we are
good, and we will respect one
another, and we will work
with one another, and we will
celebrate our diversity.
CLINTON: These are very
important values to me, because
this is the America that I know
and love.
And I can pledge to you tonight
that this is the America that I
will serve if I m
so fortunate enough to
become your president.
RADIATE: And we want to get to
some questions from online
TRUMP: Am I allowed
to respond to that?
I assume I am.
RADIATE: Yes, you can
respond to that.
TRUMP: It s just words, folks.
It s just words.
Those words, I ve been
hearing them for many years.
I heard them when they were
running for the Senate in New
York, where Hillary was going
to bring back jobs to upstate
New York and she failed.
I ve heard them where Hillary is
constantly talking about the
inner cities of our country,
which are a disaster
education-wise, job wise,
safety-wise, in every way
possible.
I m going to help the
African-Americans.
Latinos, Hispanics.
I am going to help
the inner cities.
She s done a terrible job
for the African-Americans.
She wants their vote, and she
does nothing, and then she comes
back four years later.
We saw that firsthand when she
was United States senator.
She campaigned where the
primary part of her campaign
RADIATE: Mr. Trump, Mr. Trump
I want to get to audience
questions and online questions.
TRUMP: So, she s allowed to do
that, but I m not allowed to
respond?
RADIATE: You re going to have
you re going to get to respond
right now.
TRUMP: Sounds fair.
RADIATE: This tape is
generating intense interest.
In just 48 hours, it s become
the single most talked about
story of the entire 2016
election on Facebook, with
millions and millions of people
discussing it on the social
network.
As we said a moment ago, we do
want to bring in questions from
voters around country via
social media, and our first
stays on this topic.
Jeff from Ohio asks on Facebook,
Trump says the campaign has
changed him.
When did that happen?
So, Mr. Trump, let
me add to that.
When you walked off that bus at
age 59, were you a different man
or did that behavior continue
until just recently?
And you have two
minutes for this.
TRUMP: It was locker room
talk, as I told you.
That was locker room talk.
I m not proud of it.
I am a person who has great
respect for people, for my
family, for the people of this
country.
And certainly, I m
not proud of it.
But that was something
that happened.
If you look at Bill
Clinton, far worse.
Mine are words, and
his was action.
His was what he s done to women.
There s never been anybody in
the history politics in this
nation that s been so abusive
to women.
So you can say any way you want
to say it, but Bill Clinton was
abusive to women.
Hillary Clinton attacked those
same women and attacked them
viciously.
Four of them here tonight.
One of the women, who is a
wonderful woman, at 12 years
old, was raped at 12.
Her client she represented got
him off, and she s seen laughing
on two separate occasions,
laughing at the
girl who was raped.
Kathy Shelton, that young woman
is here with us tonight.
So don t tell me about words.
I am absolutely I
apologize for those words.
But it is things
that people say.
But what President Clinton did,
he was impeached, he lost his
license to practice law.
He had to pay an $850,000
fine to one of the women.
Paula Jones, who s
also here tonight.
And I will tell you that when
Hillary brings up a point like
that and she talks about words
that I said 11 years ago, I
think it s disgraceful, and I
think she should be ashamed of
herself,
if you want to know the truth.
(APPLAUSE)
RADIATE: Can we please
hold the applause?
Secretary Clinton, you
have two minutes.
CLINTON: Well, first, let me
start by saying that so much of
what he s just said is not
right, but he gets to run his
campaign any way he chooses.
He gets to decide what
he wants to talk about.
Instead of answering people s
questions, talking about our
agenda, laying out the plans
that we have that we think can
make a better life and a better
country, that s his choice.
When I hear something like that,
I am reminded of what my friend,
Michelle Obama, advised
us all: When they go
low, you go high.
(APPLAUSE) And, look, if this
were just about one video, maybe
what he s saying tonight
would be understandable, but
everyone can draw their own
conclusions at this point about
whether or not the man in the
video or the man on the stage
respects women.
But he never apologizes
for anything to anyone.
CLINTON: He never apologized to
Mr. and Mrs. Khan, the Gold Star
family whose son, Captain
Khan, died in the
line of duty in Iraq.
And Donald insulted and attacked
them for weeks over their
religion.
He never apologized to the
distinguished federal judge who
was born in Indiana, but Donald
said he couldn t be trusted to
be a judge because his parents
were, quote, Mexican.
He never apologized to the
reporter that he mimicked and
mocked on national television
and our children were watching.
And he never apologized for the
racist lie that President Obama
was not born in the United
States of America.
He owes the president an
apology, he owes our country an
apology, and he needs to take
responsibility for his
actions and his words.
TRUMP: Well, you owe the
president an apology, because as
you know very well, your
campaign,
Sidney Blumenthal he s another
real winner that you have and
he s the one
that got this started, along
with your campaign manager, and
they were on television just
two weeks ago, she was,
saying exactly that.
So you really owe
him an apology.
You re the one that sent the
pictures around your campaign,
sent the pictures around with
President Obama in
a certain garb.
That was long before I was ever
involved, so you actually owe an
apology.
Number two, Michelle Obama.
I ve gotten to see the
commercials that they did on
you.
And I ve gotten to see some of
the most vicious commercials
I ve ever seen of Michelle
Obama talking about
you, Hillary.
So, you talk about friend?
Go back and take a look at those
commercials, a race where you
lost fair and square, unlike
the Bernie Sanders race, where
you won, but not fair and
square, in my opinion.
And all you have to do is take a
look at WikiLeaks and just see
what they say about Bernie
Sanders
and see what Deborah Wasserman
Schultz had in mind, because
Bernie Sanders, between
super-delegates
and Deborah Wasserman Schultz,
he never had a chance.
And I was so surprised to see
him sign on with the devil.
But when you talk about apology,
I think the one that you should
really be apologizing
for and the thing that you
should be apologizing for are
the 33,000 e-mails that you
deleted,
and that you acid washed, and
then the two boxes of e-mails
and other things last week
that were taken from an
office and are now missing.
And I ll tell you what.
I didn t think I d say this, but
I m going to say it, and I hate
to say it.
But if I win, I am going to
instruct my attorney general to
get a special prosecutor to look
into your situation, because
there has never been so many
lies, so much deception.
There has never been anything
like it, and we re going to have
a special prosecutor.
When I speak, I go out and
speak, the people of this
country are furious.
In my opinion, the people that
have been long-term workers at
the FBI are furious.
There has never been anything
like this, where e-mails and
you get a subpoena, you get
a subpoena, and after getting
the subpoena, you delete 33,000
e-mails, and then you acid
wash them or bleach them, as you
would say, very expensive
process.
So we re going to get a special
prosecutor, and we re going to
look into it, because
you know what?
People have been their lives
have been destroyed for doing
one-fifth of what you ve
done.
And it s a disgrace.
And honestly, you ought to
be ashamed of yourself.
RADIATE: Secretary Clinton, I
want to follow up on that.
(CROSSTALK)
RADIATE: I m going to let
you talk about e-mails.
CLINTON: because everything he
just said is absolutely false,
but I m not surprised.
TRUMP: Oh, really?
CLINTON: In the first debate
(LAUGHTER)
RADIATE: And really, the
audience needs to calm down
here.
CLINTON: I told people that it
would be impossible to be
fact-checking Donald all
the time.
I d never get to talk about
anything I want to do and how
we re going to really make
lives better for people.
So, once again, go to
HillaryClinton.com.
We have literally Trump you
can fact check him in real time.
Last time at the first debate,
we had millions of people fact
checking, so I expect we ll
have millions more fact
checking, because, you know, it
is it s just awfully good
that someone with the
temperament of Donald Trump is
not in charge of the law in our
country.
TRUMP: Because you d be in jail.
(APPLAUSE)
RADIATE: Secretary Clinton
COOPER: We want to remind the
audience to please not talk out
loud.
Please do not applaud.
You re just wasting time.
RADIATE: And, Secretary Clinton,
I do want to follow up on e-
mails.
You ve said your handing of
your e-mails was a mistake.
You disagreed with FBI Director
James Comey, calling your
handling of classified
information,
quote, extremely careless.
The FBI said that there were 110
classified e-mails that were
exchanged, eight of which
were top secret, and that it was
possible hostile actors did gain
access to those e-mails.
You don t call that
extremely careless?
CLINTON: Well, Martha, first,
let me say and I ve said
before, but I ll repeat it,
because I want everyone to hear
it that was a mistake, and I
take responsibility for
using a personal e-mail account.
Obviously, if I were to do
it over again, I would not.
I m not making any excuses.
It was a mistake.
And I am very sorry about that.
But I think it s also important
to point out where there are
some misleading accusations
from critics and others.
After a year-long investigation,
there is no evidence that anyone
hacked the server
I was using and there is no
evidence that anyone can point
to at all anyone who
says otherwise has no basis
that any classified material
ended up in the wrong hands.
I take classified materials
very seriously and always have.
When I was on the Senate Armed
Services Committee, I was privy
to a lot of classified material.
Obviously, as secretary of
state, I had some of the most
important secrets that we
possess,
such as going after bin Laden.
So I am very committed to taking
classified information
seriously.
And as I said, there is no
evidence that any classified
information ended up in the
wrong
hands.
RADIATE: OK, we re
going to move on.
TRUMP: And yet she didn t know
the word the letter C on a
document.
Right?
She didn t even know what that
word what that letter meant.
You know, it s amazing.
I m watching Hillary
go over facts.
And she s going after fact after
fact, and she s lying again,
because she said she
you know, what she did
with the e-mail was fine.
You think it was fine to
delete 33,000 e-mails?
I don t think so.
She said the 33,000 e-mails had
to do with her daughter s
wedding, number one, and
a yoga class.
Well, maybe we ll give three or
three or four or five or
something.
33,000 e-mails deleted, and now
she s saying there wasn t
anything wrong.
And more importantly, that was
after getting a subpoena.
That wasn t before.
That was after.
She got it from the
United States Congress.
And I ll be honest, I am so
disappointed in congressmen,
including Republicans, for
allowing this to happen.
Our Justice Department, where
our husband goes on to the back
of a airplane for 39 minutes,
talks to the attorney general
days before a ruling is going to
be made on her case.
But for you to say that there
was nothing wrong with you
deleting 39,000 e-mails, again,
you should be ashamed
of yourself.
What you did and this is after
getting a subpoena from the
United States Congress.
COOPER: We have to move on.
TRUMP: You did that.
Wait a minute.
One second.
COOPER: Secretary Clinton, you
can respond, and then we got to
move on.
RADIATE: We want to give
the audience a chance.
TRUMP: If you did that in the
private sector, you d be put in
jail, let alone after getting
a subpoena from the
United States Congress.
COOPER: Secretary
Clinton, you can respond.
Then we have to move on
to an audience question.
CLINTON: Look, it s
just not true.
And so please, go to
TRUMP: Oh, you
didn t delete them?
COOPER: Allow her
to respond, please.
CLINTON: It was personal
e-mails, not official.
TRUMP: Oh, 33,000?
Yeah.
CLINTON: Not well, we
turned over 35,000, so
TRUMP: Oh, yeah.
What about the other 15,000?
COOPER: Please allow
her to respond.
She didn t talk
while you talked.
CLINTON: Yes, that s
true, I didn t.
TRUMP: Because you
have nothing to say.
CLINTON: I didn t in the first
debate, and I m going to try not
to in this debate,
because I d like to get to the
questions that the people have
brought here tonight
to talk to us about.
TRUMP: Get off this question.
CLINTON: OK, Donald.
I know you re into big diversion
tonight, anything to avoid
talking about your campaign
and the way it s exploding and
the way Republicans are leaving
you.
But let s at least focus
TRUMP: Let s see what happens
(CROSSTALK)
COOPER: Allow her to respond.
CLINTON: on some of the issues
that people care about tonight.
Let s get to their questions.
COOPER: We have a question
here from Ken Karpowicz.
He has a question
about health care.
Ken?
TRUMP: I d like to know,
Anderson, why aren t you
bringing up the e-mails?
I d like to know.
Why aren t you bringing
COOPER: We brought
up the e-mails.
TRUMP: No, it hasn t.
It hasn t.
And it hasn t been
finished at all.
COOPER: Ken Karpowicz
has a question.
TRUMP: It s nice
to one on three.
QUESTION: Thank you.
Affordable Care Act, known as
Obamacare, it is not affordable.
Premiums have gone up.
Deductibles have gone up.
Copays have gone up.
Prescriptions have gone up.
And the coverage has gone down.
What will you do to bring the
cost down and make coverage
better?
COOPER: That first one goes to
Secretary Clinton, because you
started out the last one to the
audience.
CLINTON: If he wants to
start, he can start.
No, go ahead, Donald.
TRUMP: No, I m a
gentlemen, Hillary.
Go ahead.
(LAUGHTER)
COOPER: Secretary Clinton?
CLINTON: Well, I think Donald
was about to say he s going to
solve it by repealing
it and getting rid of the
Affordable Care Act.
And I m going to fix it,
because I agree with you.
Premiums have gotten too high.
Copays, deductibles,
prescription drug costs, and
I ve laid out a series of
actions that
we can take to try to
get those costs down.
But here s what I don t want
people to forget when we re
talking about reining
in the costs, which has to be
the highest priority of the next
president, when the Affordable
Care Act passed, it wasn t just
that 20 million got insurance
who didn t have it
before.
But that in and of
itself was a good thing.
I meet these people all the
time, and they tell me what a
difference having that insurance
meant to them and
their families.
But everybody else, the 170
million of us who get health
insurance through our employees
got big benefits.
Number one, insurance companies
can t deny you coverage because
of a pre-existing condition.
Number two, no lifetime limits,
which is a big deal if you have
serious health problems.
Number three, women can t be
charged more than men for our
health insurance, which is
the way it used to be before
the Affordable Care Act.
Number four, if you re under 26,
and your parents have a policy,
you can be on that
policy until the age of 26,
something that didn t happen
before.
So I want very much to save what
works and is good about the
Affordable Care Act.
But we ve got to get costs down.
We ve got to provide additional
help to small businesses so that
they can afford to
provide health insurance.
But if we repeal it, as Donald
has proposed, and start over
again, all of those benefits
I just mentioned are lost to
everybody, not just people who
get their health insurance
on the exchange.
And then we would have
to start all over again.
Right now, we are at 90 percent
health insurance coverage.
That s the highest we ve
ever been in our country.
COOPER: Secretary
Clinton, your time is up.
CLINTON: So I want us to get to
100 percent, but get costs down
and keep quality up.
COOPER: Mr. Trump, you
have two minutes.
TRUMP: It is such a great
question and it s maybe the
question I get almost more than
anything else,
outside of defense.
Obamacare is a disaster.
You know it.
We all know it.
It s going up at numbers that
nobody s ever seen worldwide.
Nobody s ever seen numbers
like this for health care.
It s only getting worse.
In 17, it implodes by itself.
Their method of fixing it is to
go back and ask Congress for
more money, more and more
money.
We have right now almost
$20 trillion in debt.
Obamacare will never work.
It s very bad, very
bad health insurance.
Far too expensive.
And not only expensive for the
person that has it, unbelievably
expensive for our country.
It s going to be one of the
biggest line items very shortly.
We have to repeal it and replace
it with something absolutely
much less expensive and
something
that works, where your plan
can actually be tailored.
We have to get rid of the lines
around the state, artificial
lines, where we stop insurance
companies from coming in and
competing, because they want
and President Obama and whoever
was working on it they want to
leave those lines, because that
gives the insurance companies
essentially monopolies.
We want competition.
You will have the finest
health care plan there is.
She wants to go to a
single-payer plan, which would
be a disaster, somewhat similar
to Canada.
And if you haven t noticed the
Canadians, when they need a big
operation, when something
happens, they come into the
United States in many cases
because their system is so slow.
It s catastrophic
in certain ways.
But she wants to go to single
payer, which means the
government basically rules
everything.
Hillary Clinton has been
after this for years.
Obamacare was the first step.
Obamacare is a total disaster.
And not only are your rates
going up by numbers that
nobody s ever believed, but your
deductibles
are going up, so that unless you
get hit by a truck, you re never
going to be able to
use it.
COOPER: Mr. Trump, your time
TRUMP: It is a disastrous plan,
and it has to be repealed and
replaced.
COOPER: Secretary Clinton,
let me follow up with you.
Your husband called Obamacare,
quote, the craziest thing in
the world, saying that
small-business owners are
getting killed as premiums
double, coverage is cut in half.
Was he mistaken or was the
mistake simply telling the
truth?
CLINTON: No, I mean, he
clarified what he meant.
And it s very clear.
Look, we are in a situation in
our country where if we were to
start all over again,
we might come up with
a different system.
But we have an
employer-based system.
That s where the vast majority
of people get their health care.
And the Affordable Care Act was
meant to try to fill the gap
between people who were too
poor and couldn t put together
any resources to afford health
care, namely people on Medicaid.
Obviously, Medicare, which is a
single-payer system, which takes
care of our elderly and
does a great job doing it, by
the way, and then all of the
people who were employed,
but people who were working but
didn t have the money to afford
insurance and didn t
have anybody, an employer or
anybody else, to help them.
That was the slot that the
Obamacare approach was to take.
And like I say, 20 million
people now have health
insurance.
So if we just rip it up and
throw it away, what Donald s not
telling you is we just
turn it back to the insurance
companies the way it used to be,
and that means the insurance
companies
COOPER: Secretary Clinton
CLINTON: get to do pretty much
whatever they want, including
saying, look, I m sorry,
you ve got diabetes, you had
cancer, your child has asthma
COOPER: Your time is up.
CLINTON: you may not be able
to have insurance because you
can t afford it.
So let s fix what s broken about
it, but let s not throw it away
and give it all
back to the insurance companies
and the drug companies.
That s not going to work.
COOPER: Mr. Trump, let
me follow up on this.
TRUMP: Well, I just
want just one thing.
First of all, Hillary,
everything s broken about it.
Everything.
Number two, Bernie Sanders said
that Hillary Clinton has very
bad judgment.
This is a perfect example of it,
trying to save Obamacare, which
is a disaster.
COOPER: You ve said you
want to end Obamacare
TRUMP: By the way
COOPER: You ve said you
want to end Obamacare.
You ve also said you want to
make coverage accessible for
people with pre-existing
conditions.
How do you force insurance
companies to do that if you re
no longer mandating that
every American get insurance?
TRUMP: We re going
to be able to.
You re going to have plans
COOPER: What does that mean?
TRUMP: Well, I ll tell
you what it means.
You re going to have plans that
are so good, because we re going
to have so much competition
in the insurance industry.
Once we break out once we
break out the lines and allow
the competition to come
COOPER: Are you going are you
going to have a mandate that
Americans have to have
health insurance?
TRUMP: President Obama
Anderson, excuse me.
President Obama, by keeping
those lines, the boundary lines
around each state, it was almost
gone until just very toward the
end of the passage of Obamacare,
which, by the way, was
a fraud.
You know that, because Jonathan
Gruber, the architect of
Obamacare, was said he said
it was a great lie,
it was a big lie.
President Obama said you keep
your doctor, you keep your plan.
The whole thing was a
fraud, and it doesn t work.
But when we get rid of those
lines, you will have
competition, and we will be able
to keep
pre-existing, we ll also be able
to help people that can t get
don t have money
because we are going to
have people protected.
And Republicans feel this way,
believe it or not, and strongly
this way.
We re going to block
grant into the states.
We re going to block grant
into Medicaid into the states
COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
TRUMP: so that we will be able
to take care of people without
the necessary funds
to take care of themselves.
COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
RADIATE: We now go to Gorbah
Hamed with a question for both
candidates.
QUESTION: Hi.
There are 3.3 million Muslims in
the United States, and I m one
of them.
You ve mentioned working with
Muslim nations, but with
Islamophobia on the rise, how
will
you help people like me deal
with the consequences of being
labeled as a threat to the
country
after the election is over?
RADIATE: Mr. Trump,
you re first.
TRUMP: Well, you re right about
Islamophobia, and that s a
shame.
But one thing we have to do is
we have to make sure that
because there is a problem.
I mean, whether we like it or
not, and we could be very
politically correct, but whether
we like it or not,
there is a problem.
And we have to be sure that
Muslims come in and report when
they see something going on.
When they see hatred going
on, they have to report it.
As an example, in San
Bernardino, many people saw the
bombs all over the apartment of
the
two people that killed 14 and
wounded many, many people.
Horribly wounded.
They ll never be the same.
Muslims have to report the
problems when they see them.
And, you know, there s always
a reason for everything.
If they don t do that, it s a
very difficult situation for our
country, because you look
at Orlando and you look at San
Bernardino and you look at the
World Trade Center.
Go outside.
Look at Paris.
Look at that horrible these
are radical Islamic terrorists.
And she won t even mention the
word and nor will President
Obama.
He won t use the term
radical Islamic terrorism.
Now, to solve a problem, you
have to be able to state what
the problem is or at least say
the name.
She won t say the name and
President Obama won t say the
name.
But the name is there.
It s radical Islamic terror.
And before you solve it,
you have to say the name.
RADIATE: Secretary Clinton?
CLINTON: Well, thank you
for asking your question.
And I ve heard this question
from a lot of Muslim-Americans
across our country, because,
unfortunately, there s been a
lot of very divisive, dark
things said about Muslims.
And even someone like Captain
Khan, the young man who
sacrificed himself defending our
country
in the United States Army, has
been subject to attack by
Donald.
I want to say just a
couple of things.
First, we ve had Muslims in
America since George Washington.
And we ve had many
successful Muslims.
We just lost a particular
well-known one with Muhammad
Ali.
CLINTON: My vision of America is
an America where everyone has a
place, if you re willing
to work hard, you do your part,
you contribute to the community.
That s what America is.
That s what we want America to
be for our children and our
grandchildren.
It s also very short-sighted and
even dangerous to be engaging in
the kind of demagogic rhetoric
that Donald has about Muslims.
We need American Muslims to be
part of our eyes and ears on our
front lines.
I ve worked with a lot of
different Muslim groups around
America.
I ve met with a lot of them, and
I ve heard how important it is
for them to feel
that they are wanted and
included and part of our
country, part of our homeland
security,
and that s what I want to see.
It s also important I intend to
defeat ISIS, to do so in a
coalition with majority Muslim
nations.
Right now, a lot of those
nations are hearing what Donald
says and wondering, why should
we cooperate with the Americans?
And this is a gift to ISIS and
the terrorists, violent jihadist
terrorists.
We are not at war with Islam.
And it is a mistake and it plays
into the hands of the terrorists
to act as though we
are.
So I want a country where
citizens like you and your
family are just as welcome as
anyone
else.
RADIATE: Thank you,
Secretary Clinton.
Mr. Trump, in December,
you said this.
Donald J. Trump is calling for
a total and complete shutdown of
Muslims entering
the United States until our
country s representatives can
figure out what the hell is
going on.
We have no choice.
Your running mate said this week
that the Muslim ban is no longer
your position.
Is that correct?
And if it is, was it a mistake
to have a religious test?
TRUMP: First of all, Captain
Khan is an American hero, and if
I were president at that time,
he would be alive today, because
unlike her, who voted for the
war without knowing what
she was doing, I would not
have had our people in Iraq.
Iraq was disaster.
So he would have
been alive today.
The Muslim ban is something that
in some form has morphed into a
extreme vetting from certain
areas of the world.
Hillary Clinton wants to allow
hundreds of thousands excuse
me.
Excuse me..
RADIATE: And why did
it morph into that?
No, did you no,
answer the question.
Do you still believe
TRUMP: Why don t
you interrupt her?
You interrupt me all the time.
RADDATZ: I do.
TRUMP: Why don t
you interrupt her?
RADIATE: Would you please
explain whether or not the
Muslim ban still stands?
TRUMP: It s called
extreme vetting.
We are going to areas like Syria
where they re coming in by the
tens of thousands because
of Barack Obama.
And Hillary Clinton wants to
allow a 550 percent increase
over Obama.
People are coming into our
country like we have no idea who
they are, where they are
from, what their feelings about
our country is, and she wants
550 percent more.
This is going to be the great
Trojan horse of all time.
We have enough problems
in this country.
I believe in
building safe zones.
I believe in having other people
pay for them, as an example, the
Gulf states, who are not
carrying their weight, but they
have nothing but money, and take
care of people.
But I don t want to have, with
all the problems this country
has and all of the problems that
you see going on, hundreds of
thousands of people coming in
from Syria when we know nothing
about them.
We know nothing about their
values and we know nothing about
their love for our country.
RADIATE: And, Secretary Clinton,
let me ask you about that,
because you have asked for
an increase from 10,000 to
65,000 Syrian refugees.
We know you want
tougher vetting.
That s not a perfect system.
So why take the risk of having
those refugees come into the
country?
CLINTON: Well, first of all, I
will not let anyone into our
country that I think poses
a risk to us.
But there are a lot of refugees,
women and children think of
that picture we all
saw of that 4-year-old boy with
the blood on his forehead
because he d been bombed
by the Russian and
Syrian air forces.
There are children suffering in
this catastrophic war, largely,
I believe, because of Russian
aggression.
And we need to do our part.
We by no means are carrying
anywhere near the load that
Europe and others are.
But we will have vetting that is
as tough as it needs to be from
our professionals,
our intelligence
experts and others.
But it is important for us as a
policy, you know, not to say, as
Donald has said, we re
going to ban people
based on a religion.
How do you do that?
We are a country founded on
religious freedom and liberty.
How do we do what he has
advocated without causing great
distress within our own county?
Are we going to have religious
tests when people fly into our
country?
And how do we expect to be
able to implement those?
So I thought that what he said
was extremely unwise and even
dangerous.
And indeed, you can look at the
propaganda on a lot of the
terrorists sites, and what
Donald Trump says about Muslims
is used to recruit fighters,
because they want to create
a war between us.
And the final thing I would say,
this is the 10th or 12th time
that he s denied being
for the war in Iraq.
We have it on tape.
The entire press corps
has looked at it.
It s been debunked, but it never
stops him from saying whatever
he wants to say.
TRUMP: That s not been debunked.
CLINTON: So, please
TRUMP: That has not
been debunked.
CLINTON: go to
HillaryClinton.com and you can
see it.
TRUMP: I was against I was
against the war in Iraq.
Has not been debunked.
And you voted for it.
And you shouldn t have.
Well, I just want to say
RADIATE: There s been lots
of fact-checking on that.
I d like to move on to
an online question
TRUMP: Excuse me.
She just went about 25
seconds over her time.
RADIATE: She did not.
TRUMP: Could I just
respond to this, please?
RADIATE: Very quickly, please.
TRUMP: Hillary Clinton, in terms
of having people come into our
country, we have many
criminal illegal aliens.
When we want to send them back
to their country, their country
says we don t want them.
In some cases, they re
murderers, drug lords, drug
problems.
And they don t want them.
And Hillary Clinton, when she
was secretary of state, said
that s OK, we can t force
it into their country.
Let me tell you, I m going to
force them right back into their
country.
They re murderers and
some very bad people.
And I will tell you very
strongly, when Bernie Sanders
said she had bad judgment, she
has
really bad judgment, because we
are letting people into this
country that are going to
cause problems and crime
like you ve never seen.
We re also letting drugs pour
through our southern border at a
record clip.
At a record clip.
And it shouldn t be
allowed to happen.
ICE just endorsed me.
They ve never endorsed a
presidential candidate.
The Border Patrol agents,
16,500, just recently endorsed
me, and they endorsed me because
I understand the border.
She doesn t.
She wants amnesty for everybody.
Come right in.
Come right over.
It s a horrible
thing she s doing.
She s got bad judgment, and
honestly, so bad that she should
never be president of
the United States.
That I can tell you.
RADIATE: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
I want to move on.
This next question from the
public through the Bipartisan
Open Debate Coalition s online
forum, where Americans submitted
questions that generated
millions of votes.
This question involves WikiLeaks
release of purported excerpts of
Secretary Clinton s
paid speeches, which she has
refused to release, and one line
in particular, in which you,
Secretary Clinton, purportedly
say you need both a public and
private position on certain
issues.
So, Tu (ph), from Virginia asks,
is it OK for politicians to be
two-faced?
Is it acceptable for a
politician to have a private
stance on issues?
Secretary Clinton,
your two minutes.
CLINTON: Well, right.
As I recall, that was something
I said about Abraham Lincoln
after having seen the wonderful
Steven Spielberg movie
called Lincoln.
It was a master class watching
President Lincoln get the
Congress to approve the 13th
Amendment.
It was principled, and
it was strategic.
And I was making the point that
it is hard sometimes to get the
Congress to do what you
want to do and you have
to keep working at it.
And, yes, President Lincoln was
trying to convince some people,
he used some arguments,
convincing other people,
he used other arguments.
That was a great I thought a
great display of presidential
leadership.
But, you know, let s talk about
what s really going on here,
Martha, because our
intelligence community just came
out and said in the last few
days that the Kremlin, meaning
Putin and the Russian
government, are directing the
attacks, the hacking on American
accounts
to influence our election.
And WikiLeaks is part of that,
as are other sites where the
Russians hack information,
we don t even know if it s
accurate information, and then
they put it out.
We have never in the history of
our country been in a situation
where an adversary, a
foreign power, is working so
hard to influence the outcome of
the election.
And believe me, they re not
doing it to get me elected.
They re doing it to try to
influence the election for
Donald Trump.
CLINTON: Now, maybe because he
has praised Putin, maybe because
he says he agrees with
a lot of what Putin wants to do,
maybe because he wants to do
business in Moscow, I don t
know the reasons.
But we deserve answers.
And we should demand that Donald
release all of his tax returns
so that people can see
what are the entanglements and
the financial relationships that
he has
RADIATE: We re going
to get to that later.
Secretary Clinton,
you re out of time.
CLINTON: with the Russians
and other foreign powers.
RADDATZ: Mr. Trump?
TRUMP: Well, I think I should
respond, because so
ridiculous.
Look, now she s blaming she
got caught in a total lie.
Her papers went out to all her
friends at the banks, Goldman
Sachs and everybody else,
and she said things
WikiLeaks that just came out.
And she lied.
Now she s blaming the lie on the
late, great Abraham Lincoln.
That s one that I haven t
(LAUGHTER)
OK, Honest Abe, Honest
Abe never lied.
That s the good thing.
That s the big difference
between Abraham Lincoln and you.
That s a big, big difference.
We re talking about
some difference.
But as far as other elements of
what she was saying, I don t
know Putin.
I think it would be great if we
got along with Russia because we
could fight ISIS together,
as an example.
But I don t know Putin.
But I notice, anytime anything
wrong happens, they like to say
the Russians are she
doesn t know if it s the
Russians doing the hacking.
Maybe there is no hacking.
But they always blame Russia.
And the reason they blame Russia
because they think they re
trying to tarnish me with
Russia.
I know nothing about Russia.
I know I know about Russia,
but I know nothing about the
inner workings of Russia.
I don t deal there.
I have no businesses there.
I have no loans from Russia.
I have a very, very great
balance sheet, so great that
when I did the Old Post Office
on Pennsylvania Avenue, the
United States government,
because of my balance sheet,
which
they actually know very well,
chose me to do the Old Post
Office, between the White
House and Congress, chose me
to do the Old Post Office.
One of the primary area things,
in fact, perhaps the primary
thing was balance sheet.
But I have no loans with Russia.
You could go to the United
States government, and they
would probably tell you that,
because
they know my sheet very well in
order to get that development I
had to have.
Now, the taxes are a
very simple thing.
As soon as I have first of
all, I pay hundreds of millions
of dollars in taxes.
Many of her friends
took bigger deductions.
Warren Buffett took a
massive deduction.
Soros, who s a friend of hers,
took a massive deduction.
Many of the people that are
giving her all this money that
she can do many more commercials
than me gave her took
massive deductions.
I pay hundreds of millions
of dollars in taxes.
But but as soon as my routine
audit is finished, I ll release
my returns.
I ll be very proud to.
They re actually quite great.
RADIATE: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
COOPER: We want to turn,
actually, to the topic of taxes.
We have a question
from Spencer Maass.
Spencer?
QUESTION: Good evening.
My question is, what specific
tax provisions will you change
to ensure the wealthiest
Americans
pay their fair share in taxes?
COOPER: Mr. Trump, you
have two minutes.
TRUMP: Well, one thing I d do
is get rid of carried interest.
One of the greatest provisions
for people like me, to be honest
with you, I give up
a lot when I run, because
I knock out the tax code.
And she could have done
this years ago, by the way.
She s a United States she
was a United States senator.
She complains that Donald Trump
took advantage of the tax code.
Well, why didn t she change it?
Why didn t you change it
when you were a senator?
The reason you didn t is that
all your friends take the same
advantage that I do.
And I do.
You have provisions in the tax
code that, frankly, we could
change.
But you wouldn t change it,
because all of these people gave
you the money so you
can take negative ads
on Donald Trump.
But and I say that
about a lot of things.
You know, I ve heard Hillary
complaining about so many
different things over the years.
I wish you would
have done this.
But she s been there for 30
years she s been doing this
stuff.
She never changed.
And she never will change.
She never will change.
We re getting rid of carried
interest provisions.
I m lowering taxes actually,
because I think it s so
important for corporations,
because
we have corporations leaving
massive corporations and little
ones, little ones can t form.
We re getting rid of regulations
which goes hand in hand with the
lowering of the taxes.
But we re bringing the tax rate
down from 35 percent to 15
percent.
We re cutting taxes
for the middle class.
And I will tell you, we are
cutting them big league for the
middle class.
And I will tell you, Hillary
Clinton is raising your taxes,
folks.
You can look at me.
She s raising your
taxes really high.
And what that s going to do is
a disaster for the country.
But she is raising your taxes
and I m lowering your taxes.
That in itself is
a big difference.
We are going to be
thriving again.
We have no growth
in this country.
There s no growth.
If China has a GDP of 7 percent,
it s like a national
catastrophe.
We re down at 1 percent.
And that s, like, no growth.
And we re going
lower, in my opinion.
And a lot of it has to do with
the fact that our taxes are so
high, just about the highest
in the world.
And I m bringing them down to
one of the lower in the world.
And I think it s so important
one of the most important things
we can do.
But she is raising
everybody s taxes massively.
COOPER: Secretary Clinton,
you have two minutes.
The question was, what specific
tax provisions will you change
to ensure the wealthiest
Americans
pay their fair share of taxes?
CLINTON: Well, everything you ve
heard just now from Donald is
not true.
I m sorry I have to keep saying
this, but he lives in an
alternative reality.
And it is sort of amusing to
hear somebody who hasn t paid
federal income taxes in
maybe 20 years talking about
what he s going to do.
But I ll tell you what
he s going to do.
His plan will give the wealthy
and corporations the biggest tax
cuts they ve ever had, more
than the Bush tax cuts by
at least a factor of two.
Donald always takes care of
Donald and people like Donald,
and this would be a massive
gift.
And, indeed, the way that he
talks about his tax cuts would
end up raising taxes on
middle-class
families, millions of
middle-class families.
Now, here s what I want to do.
I have said nobody who makes
less than $250,000 a year and
that s the vast majority
of Americans as you know will
have their taxes raised, because
I think we ve got
to go where the money is.
And the money is with people who
have taken advantage of every
single break in the tax
code.
And, yes, when I was a senator,
I did vote to close corporate
loopholes.
I voted to close, I think, one
of the loopholes he took
advantage of when he claimed a
billion-dollar
loss that enabled him
to avoid paying taxes.
I want to have a tax on people
who are making a million
dollars.
It s called the Buffett rule.
Yes, Warren Buffett is the one
who s gone out and said somebody
like him should not
be paying a lower tax
rate than his secretary.
I want to have a surcharge
on incomes above $5 million.
We have to make up for lost
times, because I want to invest
in you.
I want to invest in
hard-working families.
And I think it s been
unfortunate, but it s happened,
that since the Great Recession,
the gains have all
gone to the top.
And we need to reverse that.
People like Donald, who paid
zero in taxes, zero for our
vets, zero for our military,
zero for health and
education, that is wrong.
COOPER: Thank you, Secretary.
CLINTON: And we re going to make
sure that nobody, no
corporation, and no individual
can get away without paying his
fair share to support our
country.
COOPER: Thank you.
I want to give you Mr. Trump,
I want to give you the chance to
respond.
I just wanted to tell our
viewers what she s referring to.
In the last month, taxes were
the number-one issue on Facebook
for the first time in the
campaign.
The New York Times published
three pages of your 1995 tax
returns.
They show you claimed a $916
million loss, which means you
could have avoided paying
personal federal income
taxes for years.
You ve said you pay state taxes,
employee taxes, real estate
taxes, property taxes.
You have not answered,
though, a simple question.
Did you use that $916 million
loss to avoid paying personal
federal income taxes for years?
TRUMP: Of course I do.
Of course I do.
And so do all of her donors,
or most of her donors.
I know many of her donors.
Her donors took massive
tax write-offs.
COOPER: So have you (inaudible)
personal federal income tax?
TRUMP: A lot of my excuse me,
Anderson a lot of my write-
off was depreciation
and other things that Hillary
as a senator allowed.
And she ll always allow it,
because the people that give her
all this money, they
want it.
That s why.
See, I understand the tax code
better than anybody that s ever
run for president.
Hillary Clinton and it s
extremely complex Hillary
Clinton has friends that want
all of these provisions,
including they want the carried
interest provision, which is
very
important to Wall Street people.
But they really want the carried
interest provision, which I
believe Hillary s leaving.
Very interesting why she s
leaving carried interest.
But I will tell you that, number
one, I pay tremendous numbers of
taxes.
I absolutely used it.
And so did Warren Buffett and so
did George Soros and so did many
of the other people
that Hillary is
getting money from.
Now, I won t mention their
names, because they re rich, but
they re not famous.
So we won t make them famous.
COOPER: So can you can you say
how many years you have avoided
paying personal federal
income taxes?
TRUMP: No, but I pay tax,
and I pay federal tax, too.
But I have a write-off, a lot of
it s depreciation, which is a
wonderful charge.
I love depreciation.
You know, she s given it to us.
Hey, if she had a problem for
30 years she s been doing this,
Anderson.
I say it all the time.
She talks about health care.
Why didn t she do
something about it?
She talks about taxes.
Why didn t she do
something about it?
She doesn t do anything about
anything other than talk.
With her, it s all
talk and no action.
COOPER: In the past
TRUMP: And, again, Bernie
Sanders, it s really bad
judgment.
She has made bad judgment
not only on taxes.
She s made bad judgments on
Libya, on Syria, on Iraq.
I mean, her and Obama, whether
you like it or not, the way they
got out of Iraq, the
vacuum they ve left, that s why
ISIS formed in the first place.
They started from that little
area, and now they re in 32
different nations, Hillary.
Congratulations.
Great job.
COOPER: Secretary I want you
to be able to respond, Secretary
Clinton.
CLINTON: Well, here we go again.
I ve been in favor of getting
rid of carried interest for
years, starting when I was a
senator from New York.
But that s not the point here.
TRUMP: Why didn t you do it?
Why didn t you do it?
COOPER: Allow her to respond.
CLINTON: Because I was a senator
with a Republican president.
TRUMP: Oh, really?
CLINTON: I will be the president
and we will get it done.
That s exactly right.
TRUMP: You could have done it,
if you were an effective if
you were an effective
senator, you could have done it.
If you were an effective
But you were not an
effective senator.
COOPER: Please allow
her to respond.
She didn t interrupt you.
CLINTON: You know, under our
Constitution, presidents have
something called veto power.
Look, he has now said
repeatedly, 30 years this and
30 years that.
So let me talk about my 30
years in public service.
I m very glad to do so.
Eight million kids every year
have health insurance, because
when I was first lady I
worked with Democrats and
Republicans to create the
Children s Health Insurance
Program.
Hundreds of thousands of kids
now have a chance to be adopted
because I worked to change our
adoption and foster care system.
After 9/11, I went to work with
Republican mayor, governor and
president to rebuild New
York and to get health care for
our first responders who were
suffering because they
had run toward danger and
gotten sickened by it.
Hundreds of thousands of
National Guard and Reserve
members have health care because
of
work that I did, and children
have safer medicines because I
was able to pass a law that
required
the dosing to be
more carefully done.
When I was secretary of state, I
went around the world advocating
for our country, but
also advocating for women s
rights, to make sure that women
had a decent chance to have
a better life and negotiated a
treaty with Russia to lower
nuclear weapons.
Four hundred pieces of
legislation have my name on it
as a sponsor or cosponsor when
I was a senator for eight years.
I worked very hard and was very
proud to be re-elected in New
York by an even bigger margin
than I had been elected
the first time.
And as president, I will take
that work, that bipartisan work,
that finding common ground,
because you have to be able to
get along with people to get
things done in Washington.
COOPER: Thank you, secretary.
CLINTON: I ve proven that I can,
and for 30 years, I ve produced
results for people.
COOPER: Thank you, secretary.
RADIATE: We re going
to move on to Syria.
Both of you have mentioned that.
TRUMP: She said a lot of
things that were false.
I mean, I think we should
be allowed to maybe
RADIATE: No, we can no, Mr.
Trump, we re going to go on.
This is about the audience.
TRUMP: Excuse me.
Because she has been a
disaster as a senator.
A disaster.
RADIATE: Mr. Trump,
we re going to move on.
The heart-breaking video of a
5-year-old Syrian boy named
Omran sitting in an ambulance
after
being pulled from the rubble
after an air strike in Aleppo
focused the world s attention
on the horrors of the war in
Syria, with 136 million views on
Facebook alone.
But there are much worse images
coming out of Aleppo every day
now, where in the past
few weeks alone, 400 people have
been killed, at least 100 of
them children.
Just days ago, the State
Department called for a war
crimes investigation of the
Syrian
regime of Bashar al-Assad and
its ally, Russia, for their
bombardment of Aleppo.
So this next question comes
through social media through
Facebook.
Diane from Pennsylvania asks, if
you were president, what would
you do about Syria and
the humanitarian
crisis in Aleppo?
Isn t it a lot like the
Holocaust when the U.S. waited
too long before we helped?
Secretary Clinton, we will
begin with your two minutes.
CLINTON: Well, the situation
in Syria is catastrophic.
And every day that goes by, we
see the results of the regime by
Assad in partnership with
the Iranians on the ground, the
Russians in the air, bombarding
places, in particular
Aleppo, where there are hundreds
of thousands of people, probably
about 250,000 still left.
And there is a determined effort
by the Russian air force to
destroy Aleppo in order to
eliminate
the last of the Syrian rebels
who are really holding out
against the Assad regime.
Russia hasn t paid any
attention to ISIS.
They re interested in
keeping Assad in power.
So I, when I was secretary of
state, advocated and I advocate
today a no-fly zone and safe
zones.
We need some leverage with the
Russians, because they are not
going to come to the negotiating
table for a diplomatic
resolution, unless there is some
leverage over them.
And we have to work more closely
with our partners and allies on
the ground.
But I want to emphasize that
what is at stake here is the
ambitions and the aggressiveness
of Russia.
Russia has decided that
it s all in, in Syria.
And they ve also decided who
they want to see become
president of the United States,
too, and it s not me.
I ve stood up to Russia.
I ve taken on Putin and others,
and I would do that as
president.
I think wherever we can
cooperate with Russia, that s
fine.
And I did as secretary of state.
That s how we got a treaty
reducing nuclear weapons.
It s how we got the sanctions on
Iran that put a lid on the
Iranian nuclear program without
firing a single shot.
So I would go to the negotiating
table with more leverage than we
have now.
But I do support the effort to
investigate for crimes, war
crimes committed by the Syrians
and the Russians and try
to hold them accountable.
RADIATE: Thank you,
Secretary Clinton.
Mr. Trump?
TRUMP: First of all, she was
there as secretary of state with
the so-called line in the sand,
which
CLINTON: No, I wasn t.
I was gone.
I hate to interrupt
you, but at some point
TRUMP: OK.
But you were in
contact excuse me.
You were
CLINTON: At some point, we need
to do some fact-checking here.
TRUMP: You were in total contact
with the White House, and
perhaps, sadly, Obama probably
still listened to you.
I don t think he would be
listening to you very much
anymore.
Obama draws the
line in the sand.
It was laughed at all over
the world what happened.
Now, with that being said, she
talks tough against Russia.
But our nuclear program has
fallen way behind, and they ve
gone wild with their nuclear
program.
Not good.
Our government shouldn t
have allowed that to happen.
Russia is new in
terms of nuclear.
We are old.
We re tired.
We re exhausted in
terms of nuclear.
A very bad thing.
Now, she talks tough, she talks
really tough against Putin and
against Assad.
She talks in favor
of the rebels.
She doesn t even know
who the rebels are.
You know, every time we take
rebels, whether it s in Iraq or
anywhere else, we re arming
people.
And you know what happens?
They end up being worse
than the people.
Look at what she did
in Libya with Gaddafi.
Gaddafi s out.
It s a mess.
And, by the way, ISIS has a
good chunk of their oil.
I m sure you probably
have heard that.
It was a disaster.
Because the fact is, almost
everything she s done in foreign
policy has been a mistake
and it s been a disaster.
But if you look at Russia, just
take a look at Russia, and look
at what they did this
week, where I agree, she wasn t
there, but possibly she s
consulted.
We sign a peace treaty.
Everyone s all excited.
Well, what Russia did with Assad
and, by the way, with Iran, who
you made very powerful
with the dumbest deal perhaps
I ve ever seen in the history of
deal-making, the Iran
deal, with the $150 billion,
with the $1.7 billion in cash,
which is enough to fill up
this room.
But look at that deal.
Iran now and Russia
are now against us.
So she wants to fight.
She wants to fight for rebels.
There s only one problem.
You don t even know
who the rebels are.
So what s the purpose?
RADIATE: Mr. Trump, Mr. Trump,
your two minutes is up.
TRUMP: And one thing
I have to say.
RADIATE: Your two minutes is up.
TRUMP: I don t like Assad at
all, but Assad is killing ISIS.
Russia is killing ISIS.
And Iran is killing ISIS.
And those three have now lined
up because of our weak foreign
policy.
RADIATE: Mr. Trump, let
me repeat the question.
If you were president
(LAUGHTER)
what would you do about Syria
and the humanitarian crisis in
Aleppo?
And I want to remind you
what your running mate said.
He said provocations by Russia
need to be met with American
strength and that if Russia
continues to be involved in air
strikes along with the Syrian
government forces of Assad,
the United States of America
should be prepared to use
military force to strike the
military
targets of the Assad regime.
TRUMP: OK.
He and I haven t spoken,
and I disagree.
I disagree.
RADIATE: You disagree
with your running mate?
TRUMP: I think you have
to knock out ISIS.
Right now, Syria
is fighting ISIS.
We have people that want to
fight both at the same time.
But Syria is no longer Syria.
Syria is Russia and it s Iran,
who she made strong and Kerry
and Obama made into a very
powerful nation and a very rich
nation, very, very quickly,
very, very quickly.
I believe we have to get ISIS.
We have to worry about ISIS
before we can get too much more
involved.
She had a chance to do
something with Syria.
They had a chance.
And that was the line.
And she didn t.
RADIATE: What do you think
will happen if Aleppo falls?
TRUMP: I think Aleppo is a
disaster, humanitarian-wise.
RADIATE: What do you think
will happen if it falls?
TRUMP: I think that it
basically has fallen.
OK?
It basically has fallen.
Let me tell you something.
You take a look at Mosul.
The biggest problem I have with
the stupidity of our foreign
policy, we have Mosul.
They think a lot of the
ISIS leaders are in Mosul.
So we have announcements coming
out of Washington and coming out
of Iraq, we will be attacking
Mosul in three weeks
or four weeks.
Well, all of these bad leaders
from ISIS are leaving Mosul.
Why can t they do it quietly?
Why can t they do the attack,
make it a sneak attack, and
after the attack is made,
inform the American public that
we ve knocked out the leaders,
we ve had a tremendous
success?
People leave.
Why do they have to say we re
going to be attacking Mosul
within the next four to six
weeks, which is what
they re saying?
How stupid is our country?
RADIATE: There are sometimes
reasons the military does that.
Psychological warfare.
TRUMP: I can t think of any.
I can t think of any.
And I m pretty good at it.
RADIATE: It might be to
help get civilians out.
TRUMP: And we have
General Flynn.
And we have look, I have 200
generals and admirals who
endorsed me.
I have 21 Congressional Medal of
Honor recipients who endorsed
me.
We talk about it all the time.
They understand, why can t they
do something secretively, where
they go in and they knock
out the leadership?
How why would these
people stay there?
I ve been reading now
RADIATE: Tell me what
your strategy is.
TRUMP: for weeks I ve been
reading now for weeks about
Mosul, that it s the
harbor of where you know,
between Raqqa and Mosul, this is
where they think the ISIS
leaders are.
Why would they be saying
they re not staying there
anymore.
They re gone.
Because everybody s talking
about how Iraq, which is us with
our leadership, goes in to
fight Mosul.
Now, with these 200 admirals and
generals, they can t believe it.
All I say is this.
General George Patton, General
Douglas MacArthur are spinning
in their grave at the stupidity
of what we re doing
in the Middle East.
RADIATE: I m going to go
to Secretary Clinton.
Secretary Clinton, you
want Assad to go.
You advocated arming rebels, but
it looks like that may be too
late for Aleppo.
You talk about
diplomatic efforts.
Those have failed.
Cease-fires have failed.
Would you introduce the threat
of U.S. military force beyond a
no-fly zone against the Assad
regime to back up diplomacy?
CLINTON: I would not use
American ground forces in Syria.
I think that would be a
very serious mistake.
I don t think American troops
should be holding territory,
which is what they would
have to do as an
occupying force.
I don t think that
is a smart strategy.
I do think the use of special
forces, which we re using, the
use of enablers and trainers
in Iraq, which has had some
positive effects, are very much
in our interests, and so I do
support what is happening,
but let me just
RADIATE: But what would you do
differently than President Obama
is doing?
CLINTON: Well, Martha, I hope
that by the time I if I m
fortunate
TRUMP: Everything.
CLINTON: I hope by the time I am
president that we will have
pushed ISIS out of Iraq.
I do think that there is a good
chance that we can take Mosul.
And, you know, Donald says he
knows more about ISIS than the
generals.
No, he doesn t.
There are a lot of very
important planning going on, and
some of it is to signal to the
Sunnis in the area, as well as
Kurdish Peshmerga fighters, that
we all need to be in this.
And that takes a lot of
planning and preparation.
I would go after Baghdadi.
I would specifically target
Baghdadi, because I think our
targeting of Al Qaida leaders
and I was involved in a lot of
those operations, highly
classified ones made a
difference.
So I think that could help.
I would also consider
arming the Kurds.
The Kurds have been our best
partners in Syria, as well as
Iraq.
And I know there s a lot of
concern about that in some
circles, but I think they should
have the equipment they need so
that Kurdish and Arab fighters
on the ground are the principal
way that we take Raqqa after
pushing ISIS out of Iraq.
RADIATE: Thank you very much.
We re going to move on
TRUMP: You know what s funny?
She went over a minute over,
and you don t stop her.
When I go one second over,
it s like a big deal.
RADIATE: You had many answers.
TRUMP: It s really it s
really very interesting.
COOPER: We ve got a question
over here from James Carter.
Mr. Carter?
QUESTION: My question is, do you
believe you can be a devoted
president to all the people
in the United States?
COOPER: That question
begins for Mr. Trump.
TRUMP: Absolutely.
I mean, she calls our people
deplorable, a large group, and
irredeemable.
I will be a president
for all of our people.
And I ll be a president that
will turn our inner cities
around and will give strength
to people and will give
economics to people and will
bring jobs back.
Because NAFTA, signed by her
husband, is perhaps the greatest
disaster trade deal in the
history
of the world.
Not in this country.
It stripped us of
manufacturing jobs.
We lost our jobs.
We lost our money.
We lost our plants.
It is a disaster.
And now she wants to sign TPP,
even though she says now she s
for it.
She called it the gold standard.
And by the way, at the last
debate, she lied, because it
turned out that she did say the
gold standard and she
said she didn t say it.
They actually said
that she lied.
OK?
And she lied.
But she s lied about
a lot of things.
TRUMP: I would be a president
for all of the people, African-
Americans, the inner cities.
Devastating what s happening
to our inner cities.
She s been talking
about it for years.
As usual, she talks about
it, nothing happens.
She doesn t get it done.
Same with the Latino Americans,
the Hispanic Americans.
The same exact thing.
They talk, they
don t get it done.
You go into the inner cities and
you see it s 45 percent
poverty.
African- Americans now 45
percent poverty in the inner
cities.
The education is a disaster.
Jobs are essentially
nonexistent.
I mean, it s you know, and
I ve been saying at big speeches
where I have 20,000
and 30,000 people, what
do you have to lose?
It can t get any worse.
And she s been talking about
the inner cities for 25 years.
Nothing s going to ever happen.
Let me tell you, if she s
president of the United States,
nothing s going to happen.
It s just going to be talk.
And all of her friends, the
taxes we were talking about, and
I would just get it by
osmosis.
She s not doing any me favors.
But by doing all the others
favors, she s doing me favors.
COOPER: Mr. Trump, thank you.
TRUMP: But I will tell
you, she s all talk.
It doesn t get done.
All you have to do is take
a look at her Senate run.
Take a look at upstate New York.
COOPER: Your two minutes is up.
Secretary Clinton, two minutes?
TRUMP: It turned out
to be a disaster.
COOPER: You have two
minutes, Secretary Clinton.
CLINTON: Well, 67 percent of the
people voted to re-elect me when
I ran for my second term,
and I was very proud and
very humbled by that.
Mr. Carter, I have tried my
entire life to do what I can to
support children and families.
You know, right out of law
school, I went to work for the
Children s Defense Fund.
And Donald talks a lot about,
you know, the 30 years I ve been
in public service.
I m proud of that.
You know, I started off as a
young lawyer working against
discrimination against
African-American
children in schools and in
the criminal justice system.
I worked to make sure that kids
with disabilities could get a
public education, something that
I care very much about.
I have worked with Latinos one
of my first jobs in politics was
down in south Texas registering
Latino citizens to
be able to vote.
So I have a deep devotion, to
use your absolutely correct
word, to making sure that an
every
American feels like he or she
has a place in our country.
And I think when you look at the
letters that I get, a lot of
people are worried that maybe
they wouldn t have a place
in Donald Trump s America.
They write me, and one woman
wrote me about her son, Felix.
She adopted him from Ethiopia
when he was a toddler.
He s 10 years old now.
This is the only one
country he s ever known.
And he listens to Donald on TV
and he said to his mother one
day, will he send me back
to Ethiopia if he gets elected?
You know, children listen
to what is being said.
To go back to the very,
very first question.
And there s a lot of fear in
fact, teachers and parents are
calling it the Trump effect.
Bullying is up.
A lot of people are
feeling, you know, uneasy.
A lot of kids are
expressing their concerns.
So, first and foremost, I will
do everything I can to reach out
to everybody.
COOPER: Your time,
Secretary Clinton.
CLINTON: Democrats, Republicans,
independents, people across our
country.
If you don t vote for me, I
still want to be your president.
COOPER: Your two minutes is up.
CLINTON: I want to be the best
president I can be for every
American.
COOPER: Secretary Clinton,
your two minutes is up.
I want to follow up on something
that Donald Trump actually said
to you, a comment you
made last month.
You said that half of Donald
Trump s supporters are, quote,
deplorable, racist, sexist,
homophobic, xenophobic,
Islamophobic.
You later said you
regretted saying half.
You didn t express regret for
using the term deplorable.
To Mr. Carter s question, how
can you unite a country if
you ve written off tens of
millions of Americans?
CLINTON: Well, within hours I
said that I was sorry about the
way I talked about that,
because my argument is
not with his supporters.
It s with him and with the
hateful and divisive campaign
that he has run, and the
inciting
of violence at his rallies, and
the very brutal kinds of
comments about not just women,
but
all Americans, all
kinds of Americans.
And what he has said about
African-Americans and Latinos,
about Muslims, about POWs, about
immigrants, about people with
disabilities, he s never
apologized for.
And so I do think that a lot of
the tone and tenor that he has
said I m proud of
the campaign that Bernie
Sanders and I ran.
We ran a campaign based
on issues, not insults.
And he is supporting
me 100 percent.
COOPER: Thank you.
CLINTON: Because we talked
about what we wanted to do.
We might have had some
differences, and we had a lot of
debates
COOPER: Thank you, Secretary.
TRUMP: but we believed that we
could make the country better.
And I was proud of that.
COOPER: I want to give
you a minute to respond.
TRUMP: We have a divided nation.
We have a very divided nation.
You look at Charlotte.
You look at Baltimore.
You look at the violence that s
taking place in the inner
cities, Chicago, you take a look
at Washington, D.C.
We have an increase in murder
within our cities, the biggest
in 45 years.
We have a divided nation,
because people like her and
believe me, she has tremendous
hate in her heart.
And when she said
deplorable, she meant it.
And when she said irredeemable,
they re irredeemable, you didn t
mention that, but
when she said they re
irredeemable, to me that might
have been even worse.
COOPER: She said some of
them are irredeemable.
TRUMP: She s got tremendous
she s got tremendous hatred.
And this country cannot take
another four years of Barack
Obama, and that s what you re
getting with her.
COOPER: Mr. Trump, let
me follow up with you.
In 2008, you wrote in one of
your books that the most
important characteristic of a
good
leader is discipline.
You said, if a leader doesn t
have it, quote, he or she won t
be one for very long.
In the days after the first
debate, you sent out a series of
tweets from 3 a.m. to 5 a.m.,
including one that told people
to check out a sex tape.
Is that the discipline
of a good leader?
TRUMP: No, there wasn t
check out a sex tape.
It was just take a look at the
person that she built up to be
this wonderful Girl Scout
who was no Girl Scout.
COOPER: You mentioned sex tape.
TRUMP: By the way, just so you
understand, when she said 3
o clock in the morning,
take a look at Benghazi.
She said who is going to answer
the call at 3 o clock in the
morning?
Guess what?
She didn t answer it, because
when Ambassador Stevens
COOPER: The question is, is that
the discipline of a good leader?
TRUMP: 600 wait a minute,
Anderson, 600 times.
Well, she said she was awake at
3 o clock in the morning, and
she also sent a tweet
out at 3 o clock in the morning,
but I won t even mention that.
But she said she ll be awake.
Who s going the famous thing,
we re going to answer our call
at 3 o clock in
the morning.
Guess what happened?
Ambassador Stevens Ambassador
Stevens sent 600 requests for
help.
And the only one she talked to
was Sidney Blumenthal, who s her
friend and not a good
guy, by the way.
So, you know, she shouldn t
be talking about that.
Now, tweeting happens to be a
modern day form of
communication.
I mean, you can like
it or not like it.
I have, between Facebook and
Twitter, I have almost 25
million people.
It s a very effective
way of communication.
So you can put it down, but it
is a very effective form of
communication.
I m not un-proud of it,
to be honest with you.
COOPER: Secretary Clinton, does
Mr. Trump have the discipline to
be a good leader?
CLINTON: No.
TRUMP: I m shocked to hear that.
(LAUGHTER)
CLINTON: Well, it s
not only my opinion.
It s the opinion of many others,
national security experts,
Republicans, former Republican
members of Congress.
But it s in part because those
of us who have had the great
privilege of seeing this
job up close and know how
difficult it is, and it s not
just because I watched my
husband
take a $300 billion deficit and
turn it into a $200 billion
surplus, and 23 million new
jobs were created, and incomes
went up for everybody.
Everybody.
African-American incomes
went up 33 percent.
And it s not just because I
worked with George W. Bush after
9/11, and I was very
proud that when I told him what
the city needed, what we needed
to recover, he said you ve
got it, and he never wavered.
He stuck with me.
And I have worked and I
admire President Obama.
He inherited the worst financial
crisis since the Great
Depression.
That was a terrible
time for our country.
COOPER: We have to move along.
CLINTON: Nine million
people lost their jobs.
RADIATE: Secretary
Clinton, we have to
CLINTON: Five million
homes were lost.
RADIATE: Secretary
Clinton, we re moving.
CLINTON: And $13 trillion in
family wealth was wiped out.
We are back on the right track.
He would send us back into
recession with his tax plans
that benefit the wealthiest
of Americans.
RADIATE: Secretary Clinton, we
are moving to an audience
question.
We re almost out of time.
We have another
TRUMP: We have the slowest
growth since 1929.
RADIATE: We re moving to
an audience question.
TRUMP: It is our country has
the slowest growth and jobs are
a disaster.
RADIATE: Mr. Trump, Secretary
Clinton, we want to get to the
audience.
Thank you very much both of you.
(LAUGHTER)
We have another
audience question.
Beth Miller has a question
for both candidates.
QUESTION: Good evening.
Perhaps the most important
aspect of this election is the
Supreme Court justice.
What would you prioritize as the
most important aspect of
selecting a Supreme Court
justice?
RADIATE: We begin with your two
minutes, Secretary Clinton.
CLINTON: Thank you.
Well, you re right.
This is one of the most
important issues in this
election.
I want to appoint Supreme Court
justices who understand the way
the world really works,
who have real-life experience,
who have not just been in a big
law firm and maybe clerked
for a judge and then gotten on
the bench, but, you know, maybe
they tried some more
cases, they actually understand
what people are up against.
Because I think the current
court has gone in the wrong
direction.
And so I would want to see the
Supreme Court reverse Citizens
United and get dark,
unaccountable
money out of our politics.
Donald doesn t agree with that.
I would like the Supreme Court
to understand that voting rights
are still a big problem
in many parts of our country,
that we don t always do
everything we can to make it
possible
for people of color and older
people and young people to be
able to exercise their
franchise.
I want a Supreme Court that will
stick with Roe v. Wade and a
woman s right to choose,
and I want a Supreme Court that
will stick with marriage
equality.
Now, Donald has put forth the
names of some people that he
would consider.
And among the ones that he has
suggested are people who would
reverse Roe v. Wade and reverse
marriage equality.
I think that would be a terrible
mistake and would take us
backwards.
I want a Supreme Court that
doesn t always side with
corporate interests.
I want a Supreme Court that
understands because you re
wealthy and you can give more
money
to something doesn t mean you
have any more rights or should
have any more rights than
anybody else.
So I have very clear views about
what I want to see to kind of
change the balance on the
Supreme Court.
And I regret deeply that the
Senate has not done its job and
they have not permitted a
vote on the person that
President Obama, a highly
qualified person, they ve not
given
him a vote to be able to be have
the full complement of nine
Supreme Court justices.
I think that was a
dereliction of duty.
I hope that they will see their
way to doing it, but if I am so
fortunate enough as to
be president, I will immediately
move to make sure that we fill
that, we have nine justices
that get to work on
behalf of our people.
RADIATE: Thank you,
Secretary Clinton.
Thank you.
You re out of time.
Mr. Trump?
TRUMP: Justice Scalia, great
judge, died recently.
And we have a vacancy.
I am looking to appoint judges
very much in the mold of Justice
Scalia.
I m looking for judges and
I ve actually picked 20 of them
so that people would see,
highly respected, highly thought
of, and actually very
beautifully reviewed by just
about everybody.
But people that will respect the
Constitution of the United
States.
And I think that this
is so important.
Also, the Second Amendment,
which is totally under siege by
people like Hillary Clinton.
They ll respect the Second
Amendment and what it stands
for, what it represents.
So important to me.
Now, Hillary mentioned something
about contributions just so you
understand.
So I will have in my race more
than $100 million put in of my
money, meaning I m not
taking all of this big money
from all of these different
corporations like she s doing.
What I ask is this.
So I m putting in more than by
the time it s finished, I ll
have more than $100
million invested.
Pretty much self-funding money.
We re raising money for the
Republican Party, and we re
doing tremendously on the small
donations, $61 average or so.
I ask Hillary, why doesn t she
made $250 million by being in
office.
She used the power of her
office to make a lot of money.
Why isn t she funding, not for
$100 million, but why don t you
put $10 million or $20
million or $25 million or $30
million into your own campaign?
It s $30 million less for
special interests that will tell
you exactly what to do and
it would really, I think, be a
nice sign to the American
public.
Why aren t you putting
some money in?
You have a lot of it.
You ve made a lot of it because
of the fact that you ve been in
office.
Made a lot of it while you were
secretary of state, actually.
So why aren t you putting
money into your own campaign?
I m just curious.
CLINTON: Well
(CROSSTALK)
RADIATE: Thank you very much.
We re going to get on
to one more question.
CLINTON: The question was
about the Supreme Court.
And I just want to quickly say,
I respect the Second Amendment.
But I believe there should be
comprehensive background checks,
and we should close the
gun show loophole, and
close the online loophole.
COOPER: Thank you.
RADIATE: We have we have one
more question, Mrs. Clinton.
CLINTON: We have to save as
many lives as we possibly can.
COOPER: We have one more
question from Ken Bone about
energy policy.
Ken?
QUESTION: What steps will your
energy policy take to meet our
energy needs, while at the
same time remaining
environmentally friendly and
minimizing job loss for fossil
power plant
workers?
COOPER: Mr. Trump, two minutes?
TRUMP: Absolutely.
I think it s such a great
question, because energy is
under siege by the Obama
administration.
Under absolutely siege.
The EPA, Environmental
Protection Agency, is killing
these energy companies.
And foreign companies are now
coming in buying our buying so
many of our different plants
and then re-jiggering the plant
so that they can take care of
their oil.
We are killing absolutely
killing our energy business in
this country.
Now, I m all for alternative
forms of energy, including wind,
including solar, et cetera.
But we need much more
than wind and solar.
And you look at our miners.
Hillary Clinton wants to put all
the miners out of business.
There is a thing
called clean coal.
Coal will last for 1,000
years in this country.
Now we have natural gas and so
many other things because of
technology.
We have unbelievable we have
found over the last seven years,
we have found tremendous
wealth right under our feet.
So good.
Especially when you have
$20 trillion in debt.
I will bring our
energy companies back.
They ll be able to compete.
They ll make money.
They ll pay off our
national debt.
They ll pay off our tremendous
budget deficits, which are
tremendous.
But we are putting our energy
companies out of business.
We have to bring
back our workers.
You take a look at what s
happening to steel and the cost
of steel and China dumping vast
amounts of steel all over the
United States, which essentially
is killing our steelworkers
and our steel companies.
We have to guard our
energy companies.
We have to make it possible.
The EPA is so restrictive that
they are putting our energy
companies out of business.
And all you have to do is go to
a great place like West Virginia
or places like Ohio, which
is phenomenal, or places like
Pennsylvania and you see what
they re doing to the people,
miners and others in
the energy business.
It s a disgrace.
COOPER: Your time is up.
Thank you.
TRUMP: It s an
absolute disgrace.
COOPER: Secretary
Clinton, two minutes.
CLINTON: And actually well,
that was very interesting.
First of all, China is illegally
dumping steel in the United
States and Donald Trump is
buying
it to build his buildings,
putting steelworkers and
American steel plants out of
business.
That s something that I fought
against as a senator and that I
would have a trade prosecutor
to make sure that we don t get
taken advantage of by China on
steel or anything else.
You know, because it sounds like
you re in the business or you re
aware of people
in the business you know that
we are now for the first time
ever energy-independent.
We are not dependent
upon the Middle East.
But the Middle East still
controls a lot of the prices.
So the price of oil
has been way down.
And that has had a damaging
effect on a lot of the oil
companies, right?
We are, however, producing a lot
of natural gas, which serves as
a bridge to more renewable
fuels.
And I think that s an
important transition.
We ve got to remain
energy-independent.
It gives us much more power and
freedom than to be worried about
what goes on in the Middle
East.
We have enough worries over
there without having to worry
about that.
So I have a comprehensive energy
policy, but it really does
include fighting climate change,
because I think that
is a serious problem.
And I support moving toward more
clean, renewable energy as
quickly as we can, because I
think
we can be the 21st century clean
energy superpower and create
millions of new jobs and
businesses.
But I also want to be sure that
we don t leave people behind.
That s why I m the only
candidate from the very
beginning of this campaign who
had
a plan to help us revitalize
coal country, because those coal
miners and their fathers
and their grandfathers,
they dug that coal out.
A lot of them lost their lives.
They were injured, but they
turned the lights on and they
powered their factories.
I don t want to walk
away from them.
So we ve got to do
something for them.
COOPER: Secretary Clinton
CLINTON: But the price of
coal is down worldwide.
So we have to look at
this comprehensively.
COOPER: Your time is up.
CLINTON: And that s exactly
what I have proposed.
I hope you will go to
HillaryClinton.com and look at
my entire policy.
COOPER: Time is up.
We have time for one more
RADIATE: We have
COOPER: One more
audience question.
RADIATE: We ve sneaked in one
more question, and it comes from
Karl Becker.
QUESTION: Good evening.
My question to both of you is,
regardless of the current
rhetoric, would either of you
name one positive thing that
you respect in one another?
(APPLAUSE)
RADIATE: Mr. Trump, would
you like to go first?
CLINTON: Well, I certainly will,
because I think that s a very
fair and important question.
Look, I respect his children.
His children are incredibly able
and devoted, and I think that
says a lot about Donald.
I don t agree with nearly
anything else he says or does,
but I do respect that.
And I think that is something
that as a mother and a
grandmother is very important to
me.
So I believe that this election
has become in part so so
conflict-oriented, so intense
because there s a lot at stake.
This is not an ordinary time,
and this is not an ordinary
election.
We are going to be choosing a
president who will set policy
for not just four or eight
years, but because of some of
the important decisions we have
to make here at home and
around the world, from the
Supreme Court to energy and so
much else, and so there is a
lot at stake.
It s one of the most
consequential elections that
we ve had.
And that s why I ve tried to put
forth specific policies and
plans, trying to get
it off of the personal and put
it on to what it is I want to do
as president.
And that s why I hope people
will check on that for
themselves so that they can see
that, yes, I ve spent 30 years,
actually maybe a little more,
working to help kids
and families.
And I want to take all that
experience to the White House
and do that every single day.
RADDATZ: Mr. Trump?
TRUMP: Well, I consider her
statement about my children to
be a very nice compliment.
I don t know if it was meant to
be a compliment, but it is a
great I m very proud of
my children.
And they ve done a wonderful
job, and they ve been wonderful,
wonderful kids.
So I consider that a compliment.
I will say this about Hillary.
She doesn t quit.
She doesn t give up.
I respect that.
I tell it like it is.
She s a fighter.
I disagree with much of
what she s fighting for.
I do disagree with her
judgment in many cases.
But she does fight hard, and she
doesn t quit, and she doesn t
give up.
And I consider that to
be a very good trait.
RADIATE: Thanks to both of you.
COOPER: We want to thank
both the candidates.
We want to thank the
university here.
This concludes the
town hall meeting.
Our thanks to the candidates,
the commission, Washington
University, and to everybody who
watched.
RADIATE: Please tune in on
October 19th for the final
presidential debate that will
take
place at the University
of Nevada, Las Vegas.
Good night, everyone.
IFILL: And that concludes this
second presidential debate
between Donald Trump and Hillary
Clinton.
Joining us here in Washington
for some analysis are syndicated
columnist Mark Shields, New
York Times columnist David
Brooks, and Amy Walter of The
Cook Political Report, as we
watch the candidates' families
join them on stage after ending
what -- a fairly nice moment
where they -- someone was able
to wring compliment out of them
as opposed way this debate began
-- Mark Shields.
SHIELDS: Karl Becker (ph), thank
you very much for the one
pleasant moment of the evening.
That question was what good
quality in the other person.
Brought out the one consistently
positive narrative in the whole
evening.
They didn't shake hands at the
beginning, apparently knowing
what was to follow.
It was a pretty ugly evening.
And not elevating,
not inspiring.
And I just thought Trump
was substance free.
And anybody does not have
anything to say on health care
18 months after the race began,
and he has nothing but a
string of adjectives.
And I just thought Hillary
Clinton's answers on the emails
was totally inadequate.
And she has no
position on Syria.
IFILL: Of course, we were
watching Donald Trump with his
children.
Donald Junior, and Eric Trump,
and Ivanka, and Melania, his
wife, standing over to the
side greeting each other.
And Hillary Clinton with
her family as well.
WOODRUFF: Amy Walter, we -- this
evening started out with the
Donald Trump videotape, audio
tape from last Friday.
Did he do anything in this
debate to take that cloud -- to
lift that cloud off of him?
WALTER: You know, in the last
debate it was Donald Trump who
was on defense the entire
time.
And Hillary Clinton
was on offense.
She got under his skin.
He went down rabbit holes.
He lost his train of thought.
This debate, for all the talk
about how he's not prepared and
he doesn't like to go and
do these mock sessions,
he was very prepared.
And he came in absolutely
focused on making the debate
about Hillary Clinton.
And he pushed her and pushed
and pushed the entire time.
He interrupted, he stalked her
at points, walking around the
stage, but he wanted to
make sure that no one was going
to walk away from this debate
saying he didn't take his
opportunities to raise the
questions about Benghazi, about
emails, about any other issue
that he didn't raise
in the first debate.
But to the question, Judy, of
whether it matters or not, I do
not believe that it does.
I think that what he also did,
which is what I feel like we've
been sitting around this
table talking about since this
summer is he's talking to the 40
percent of the people who
are already with him.
That's the base, who show up at
his rallies, who he loves
talking about, he loves talking
to, will be very happy with
this debate performance.
But if you are in suburban
Philadelphia, if you are an
independent voter, if you are a
woman, the voters right now that
he needs, he's not winning, I
don't think they move
over into his column.
IFILL: It was a long 90 minutes,
David Brooks, but you know, this
began with what Paul Ryan
this weekend called the elephant
in the room, which is the
question about the videotape,
the "Access
Hollywood" videotape.
And after about -- I counted
four-and-a-half minutes of
niceties, they went immediately
to that.
Let's listen to that for a
moment, then I want you to talk
about it on the other side.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: This was
locker room talk.
I'm not proud of it.
I apologized to my family.
I apologized to the
American people.
Certainly I'm not proud of it.
CLINTON: What we all saw and
heard on Friday was Donald
talking about women.
What he thinks about women.
What he does to women.
And he has said that the video
doesn't represent who he is.
But I think it's clear to anyone
who heard it that it represents
exactly who he is.
TRUMP: It's just words, folks.
It's just words.
Those words I've been hearing
them for many years.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
IFILL: Just words, folks.
Just words, David.
BROOKS: Well, that was her
best answer of the night.
But it was one of her few
good answers I thought.
This is a guy with
vulnerabilities coming out of
every angle, and she missed a
lot of
them.
This is a guy who just lost 40
House congressional Republicans,
she can't point that out that
his campaign is in free fall?
I thought he says things that
we've never heard before.
Saying she has
hate in her heart.
What presidential
candidate has said that?
That he wants to appoint
a special prosecutor?
We're in uncharted territory.
IFILL: That she should be
in jail, that's she devil.
BROOKS: But I thought the bottom
line, how people and especially
some of the swing sweaters,
if there are any left, that Amy
talked about, will look at the
mafioso-type stalking, how
they look at that body language
will determine a lot of their
reactions.
But my bottom line right now for
this debate is he halted the
free fall.
That it will be -- the
Republicans who were leaving him
will stop leaving him.
Because he will have rallied the
people that really dislike
Hillary Clinton, he took it
to her, he took it to her with
energy and focus, and so at
least he has not won anybody
else over, but he
stopped the slide.
WOODRUFF: So, Mark Shields, he
stopped the bleeding, stopped
the departure of these
Republicans?
SHIELDS: Well, he stopped a
Republican revolt that Dave is
talking about, 40 Republican
members.
And one after -- I mean, John
Thune of South Dakota, third in
Republican leadership in
the Senate, I mean, these are
not people who are -- the
nervous nellies who bail on
Republicans
when they're in trouble.
That is what I think, he was
talking to their constituencies,
the constituencies of the
Republicans who are going to be
on the phone tomorrow, the House
Republicans.
And say, well, gee, do I
really want to alienate?
Do I -- can we just pretend
that this didn't happen?
I mean, this is a man, this is
the first time a major party
nominee has a billionaire
running
for president who just admitted
in a debate that he paid no
federal income tax for 20
years.
I mean, and just kind
of glossed over it.
He's a man without an
embarrassment gene.
I was amazed he showed up
tonight and he just kind of
glossed over what -- that whole
tape.
I mean, he is really something
we've never seen before in a
presidential candidate.
IFILL: The NEWSHOUR's Lisa
Desjardins is upstairs in our
newsroom, she has been keeping
-- I'm
sorry, I'm going to
the wrong person.
We're going to NEWSHOUR
correspondent John Yang who is
actually at Washington
University
in St. Louis, the site
of tonight's debate.
He's talking to people
representing both campaigns.
Hey, John.
JOHN YANG, NEWSHOUR
CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Gwen.
This is -- we're here with Boris
Epshteyn, who is the senior
adviser to the Trump campaign.
Mr. Epshteyn, what did Donald
Trump do tonight to stop this
slide he has had over the past
two weeks?
BORIS EPSHTEYN, TRUMP CAMPAIGN
SENIOR ADVISER: It was a strong
night.
He was in control.
He was determined.
He was presidential.
He won this debate
fair and square.
It was a home run even though
moderators did not treat him
fairly at all, they interrupted
him about 25 more times than
they interrupted Hillary
Clinton.
But Mr. Trump won this debate
hands down, and will move on
now, will go to the next
debate in Las Vegas where he
will do great, and then win on
November 8th.
YANG: How do you think did he on
the question about foreign
policy, the question about
Syria?
He was asked about what his
strategy would be in Syria and
on Aleppo, he disagreed with
Mike Pence, his running mate.
He said he hadn't
spoken to Mike Pence.
Are we seeing some daylight
opening up between -- on this
ticket?
EPSHTEYN: Here is bottom line.
Mr. Trump has been
very consistent.
And from the beginning that we
need to fight is ISIS, deal with
Assad after.
We need to defeat ISIS.
Eighty percent of people killed
by ISIS have been killed in the
last three years.
That needs to stop.
ISIS has to be defeated.
And the Trump-Pence ticket is
absolutely united on that.
What Governor Pence was talking
about was the safe zones, making
sure that Syrians are
protected in their own country.
And that is absolutely a
priority for the Trump-Pence
ticket as well.
YANG: But when he was asked
about the consequences would be
if Aleppo fell, he turned to
Mosul.
He didn't seem to discuss
Syrian and Aleppo itself.
EPSHTEYN: Here is the
key issue here, right?
The key issue is that because of
the failed policies of Hillary
Clinton and Barack Obama,
Syria is effectively
a failed state.
Libya is a failed state.
So, what the Clinton campaign is
trying to do is to distract
Americans from realizing
that Hillary Clinton is the one
at fault for what is going on in
Syria.
So how could she
possibly fix it?
What Donald Trump will do is
ensure safe zones in Syria so
Syrian refugees are safe in
their
own country.
And he will fight ISIS first and
then deal with Assad and making
sure that Syria is no
longer a failed state after.
YANG: We've got to
leave it there.
Boris Epshteyn, a senior adviser
for the Trump campaign -- Gwen,
Judy.
WOODRUFF: Thank you, John.
And as at every debate there are
lot of charges and counter
charges, claims and counter
claims.
Our Lisa Desjardins is up in the
newsroom right now, she has been
keeping track of some
of this.
Lisa, what have
you been hearing?
LISA DESJARDINS, NEWSHOUR
CORRESPONDENT: That's right.
Many claims, many words in this
debate, but let's talk start
with two different claims
about Hillary Clinton's emails.
First, Donald Trump, and his
claim during this debate that
Hillary Clinton deleted those
33,000 infamous emails after she
received a subpoena to hand them
over.
Now we looked into this, and
like many things that the
Clinton emails, the answer is a
little
complicated.
Hillary Clinton's staff
overseeing the email server
ordered those emails to be
deleted
in December of 2014.
The subpoena was actually
handed out three months later.
But here is what
they say happened.
They say a worker at the IT
company forgot to delete them.
That worker has claimed
responsibility and said he did
delete them after the subpoena.
But here is the thing, guys, the
order was given before the
subpoena.
So Clinton herself says she has
nothing to do with those
deletions, so Donald Trump not
accurate on that point exactly.
And then Clinton, she also spoke
about those emails, she said
this quote that stuck out,
she said she takes classified
materials very seriously and
always has.
But of course the FBI in its
investigation, while finding no
wrongdoing, no criminal problems
with the Hillary Clinton's email
server, did find that she and
her staff were extremely
careless of classified
information.
And you know if you read deep
into the FBI's report once the
whole thing came out, it was
clear that Hillary Clinton
repeatedly said she did not
receive training nor did she
spend
time trying to get that training
to be on classified materials.
She said she expected her staff
to know what to do with
classified materials.
So the real question there about
how she looked at classified
materials even though she claims
she took it very seriously.
And one more, we don't have
graphic for this because we've
been working right up to the
minute, Donald Trump claimed,
and I want to read basically his
quote, he claimed that
inner city poverty, he said, is
45 percent poverty, quote,
"African-Americans now 45
percent poverty in
the inner cities."
That number jumped out
to us right away.
And of course our Quinn Bowman
(ph) jumped on the U.S. Census
site.
And right now the U.S. Census
says African-American poverty
overall about 24 percent.
That's nowhere near 45 percent.
We can't find anywhere that sort
of backs up that number of 45
percent poverty rate
in the inner cities.
It's possible trump was
confusing a number he quotes
often on the campaign trail,
which
is poverty rates for
African-American children.
But we can't find anything to
substantiate this claim of so
much poverty in the
African-American
community -- Gwen, Judy.
IFILL: That is great work, thank
you, Lisa, for keeping us clear.
It's very clear that these
candidates all come with their
goals, the things that they
have come to say.
For instance, we saw -- we just
heard what both of them came to
say about emails and
about poverty, even though
he wasn't asked about that.
And in fact, they got to emails
before they were asked about it.
But I also was very interested
to see what Donald Trump came to
say about Hillary Clinton,
to follow up in your point
earlier, he was asked about
whether she -- I can't remember
what the question was, but his
answer was, she's all talk no
action.
Let's listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Thirty years she has been
doing this, Anderson, I say it
all the time.
She talks about health care, why
didn't she do something about
it?
She talks about taxes.
Why didn't she do
something about it?
She doesn't do anything about
anything other than talk.
With her, it's all
talk and no action.
She has made bad judgments
on Libya, on Syria, on Iraq.
I mean, her and Obama, whether
you like it or not, the way they
got out of Iraq, the
vacuum they left, that's why
ISIS formed in the first place.
They started from that little
area now they're in 32 different
nations.
Hillary, congratulations.
Great job.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: Amy, this is something
that Donald Trump used in the
first debate.
Didn't get as much I think play,
he went on longer at this point.
This is a tough one to
come back on, isn't it?
WALTER: Yes, it is the message
that Donald Trump should be
pushing forward, it's message
that any Republican would be
pushing forward right now and
probably doing so more
effectively
because we wouldn't be
distracted by that person's own
problems that they keep having
to get out of.
That is the fundamental question
of this election, when we
started it, the question was, do
Americans
want to see change or do they
want to stick with the status
quo?
And what's interesting, if you
look at the way that these
questions are asked in polling,
The Wall Street Journal poll,
NBC poll asked this question
starting in May, do you want
change, even if it's
unpredictable versus staying the
same even if it doesn't bring
about change.
It was in the 50s through May
and July, it went back down to
49 percent in this most
recent poll in September.
And I think what Hillary
Clinton's -- and actually Donald
Trump has helped her do this,
is to make the case that you
maybe want change, maybe I am
the status quo, I am part of
everything
that right now so many voters
say they are pushing back
against, but this person is not
the right person to
deliver that change.
He's not stable.
IFILL: Let's talk a little bit
about style points, because
unlike the first debate, and
like vice presidential debate,
what we saw were a town hall
debate where people were
asking questions about -- they
got through about eight
questions from voters I think.
And at one point Hillary Clinton
would walk over, for instance,
when the young woman asked
about Muslims being
discriminated against.
And she would speak
directly to her.
He didn't as often.
And as you pointed out, David,
sometimes it felt like he was
stalking.
BROOKS: Yes, and so, we ve seen
sort of a temperamental choice
for the American people.
On the one hand, she was lot
better at relationally (ph), she
was also a lot better, I thought
her the cut-away shots, her
listening shots were good.
Very strong, not intimidated by
any means, but not taking him
too seriously.
So I thought in the body
language, and I really emphasize
the visuals in these debates,
that
was very strong.
He looked like a bully.
On the other hand there might be
some people who say, it s time
for a bully.
And the question is whether they
can stand looking at him for
four years.
And so, I think a lot of people,
especially people who are
undecided, may have decided
it s just too unpleasant.
And the question, a crucial
question will be, I think
everyone is dispirited by this
debate, as Mark said.
It s just hard to sit through.
It s very ugly.
It just makes you depressed
for the country.
But will they say that Donald
Trump s fault or will they say
that s both of them?
And there s a lot of that s both
of them out there right now.
WOODRUFF: And, Mark, you know,
just pick up on that, because we
are in at a unprecedented
campaign.
We ve talked about it
over and over again.
We ve never seen some of the
language, some of the stories
that we re hearing, some
of the charges that
we re hearing.
Do people just have that to look
forward to for the next four
weeks no matter how much
they talk about the
issues at these debates?
SHIELDS: Well, yes no, I think
we saw it tonight Donald Trump s
strategy was just
scorched earth.
I mean, that s exactly what
it is from here on in.
I mean, you think The
Jerry Springer Show
IFILL: And why not?
SHIELDS: You think The Jerry
Springer Show is tasteless?
I mean, this is The Jerry
Springer Show of politics.
I mean, you mention about
hatred, I mean, for somebody to
have the chutzpah to sit there,
you know, when Muslim-American
woman asks about feeling
animosity towards her, you know,
and he says, you re right about
Islamophobia, and that s a
shame, says the merchant of
malice himself, I mean,
it was just remarkable.
But I didn t think I thought
he did trade well the first
time.
And he did emails well tonight.
I mean, I thought she was very
much on the defensive about the
emails.
And I didn t I don t think she
has a satisfactory answer,
convincing answer on
the emails.
IFILL: Well, and she was also on
the defensive about the new
WikiLeaks that came out about
her private speeches.
SHIELDS: And he didn t
take advantage of that.
IFILL: No, he didn t.
But I had to say, it was my
favorite answer of the night, I
didn t think Steven Spielberg
would ever be invoked at
a presidential debate.
WOODRUFF: The movie Lincoln.
IFILL: The movie
Lincoln, inspiration
(CROSSTALK)
WOODRUFF: for having
two points of view.
WALTER: Yes.
Look, I think though this race,
to the points made here, it s
sort of now frozen where
we started.
And if there s not a free
fall, I agree that it may be
stopped, but the fact is, there
are still a significant number
of Republicans that have said
publicly that they re not
with him.
I don t know that any party has
ever won an election being this
divided.
And his ability, it s not about
getting those people back, he
has got to figure out
how to make sure that they come
to the polls for the bottom of
the ticket.
That s what so many Senate and
House candidates are worried
about, it s that those folks
who are saying, I can t vote for
Donald Trump, but as David says,
I also don t like
her.
That they just stay home, and
that is very problematic for
Senate and House candidates
on the Republican side.
WOODRUFF: We did have
acknowledgment, the question is,
is it baked in?
But tonight Donald Trump did
acknowledge that he isn t paying
taxes.
I mean, we don t he wouldn t
say how many years, David, but
it is kind of remarkable.
BROOKS: Yes.
And, again, he s trading on
distrust and cynicism and hatred
of government.
And so the people who hate
government will think, way to
go, I would have done that if
I could.
But a lot of people will think,
well, the common good outweighs
the selfish interest.
IFILL: Shall we go back all the
way to something that happened
at the very beginning of this
evening.
And I wonder whether you think
it was mind game and whether it
was effective, that before
the debate even began, Donald
Trump brought reporters and
introduced them to four women
who have made charges against
the Clintons, three against Bill
Clinton in particular.
And they then brought
seated in the hall.
He even referenced them during
the debate at one point.
Was that something which was
clever or kind of icky, Mark?
SHIELDS: Well, I mean, clever in
the sense that he was he s
reaching to the hardcore
Republicans, the organizing
principle of which is they hate
the Clintons.
They hate Hillary Clinton.
They hate Bill Clinton.
And that is what it is.
And I am the one tribune in this
race and I m not afraid to take
them on.
And that was to me that was
about stopping the hemorrhaging
of support that we ve talked
about of Republicans this week.
But icky?
Absolutely icky.
WALTER: Yes, I definitely
found the ice factor there.
But, you know, this is a guy who
is the master of reality
television.
And he created, before this
debate even began, more drama
around himself and the focus
the
interesting thing about this
entire debate was it was a town
hall with the goal of, you
get to talk to actual voters and
they get to have their concerns
put forward.
At no point did it feel like
regular people had their voices
heard.
At no point did it feel like we
were talking about anything
other than a grudge match.
IFILL: OK.
Well, we are unfortunately we
had hoped to talk to some folks
from the Clinton campaign
out there in St. Louis tonight.
But we weren t able to do it.
So that concludes our coverage,
we ll get to more tomorrow, of
the second presidential
debate.
But there is much more online.
You can watch highlights
at pbs.org/newshour.
Plus, fact checks from our very
own economics correspondent Paul
Solman, foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret Warner,
and the entire NEWSHOUR team.
I m Gwen Ifill.
WOODRUFF: And I m Judy Woodruff.
Join us right here for the
NEWSHOUR tomorrow evening, for
all of us at the PBS NEWHOUR,
and thanks to our team tonight,
thank you and good night.
END